docs/testing.md, before:

# Testing Matrix

Use this checklist to ensure changes are validated across supported workflows.

## Unit & Integration Tests

- `python -m pytest -q` (with `AMPBENCHKIT_FAKE_HW=1` for simulator mode).
- Focus areas:
  - Signal generation helpers (`amp_benchkit.fy`, `signals.py`)
  - Scope capture and math subtraction (`amp_benchkit.tek`)
  - GUI builder smoke tests (`tests/test_gui_builders.py`)
  - Automation sweeps (`tests/test_automation.py`)

## GUI Smoke Tests

1. `python unified_gui_layout.py gui`
2. Verify generator, scope, and DAQ tabs load without hardware.
3. Run the “Run Test” or sweep actions using fake hardware.

## Hardware-in-the-Loop (HIL)

For release qualification (v0.3.6 baseline):

```bash
export AMP_HIL=1
pytest -q -rs
```

Exercise scope/generator fixtures individually for failures, e.g.:

```bash
pytest tests/test_gui_builders.py -k scope
```

### Tektronix auto-scaling checks

When validating sweeps at multiple amplitudes, prefer the new auto-scaling flags so the
Tek math trace does not clip between runs:

```bash
python unified_gui_layout.py thd-math-sweep \
  --math --math-order CH1-CH3 \
  --amp-vpp 0.3 \
  --scope-auto-scale CH1=13,CH3=1 \
  --scope-auto-scale-margin 0.8 \
  --apply-gold-calibration --cal-target-vpp 0.3 \
  --output results/thd_0p3_auto_gold.csv
```

- Tune the gain map (`CHn=value`) to match your probe ratios / stage gain.
- Keep results under `results/` (e.g. `results/kenwood/baseline_auto_gold/`) so future HIL runs can compare against the same artefacts.

Document anomalies in `CHANGELOG.md` or new issues.

### -3 dB knee sweep

Use the new headless bandwidth helper when validating amplifier bandwidth or matching against golden references:

```bash
python unified_gui_layout.py knee-sweep \
  --amp-vpp 1.0 \
  --output results/knee_sweep.csv \
  --apply-gold-calibration \
  --knee-drop-db 3.0 \
  --smoothing median --smooth-window 5
```

- Adjust `--knee-drop-db` for other thresholds (e.g. -1 dB noise floor checks).
- `--smoothing` / `--allow-non-monotonic` help tame non-linear response curves before interpolation.
- CLI output includes Vrms/PkPk columns plus the relative dB delta that should be cross-checked against published specs.

### FFT snapshot (Tek math trace)

When you need a quick look at harmonic distribution or the measurement noise floor, capture the on-scope FFT trace:

```bash
amp-benchkit fft-capture \
  --source CH1 \
  --window hanning \
  --scale db \
  --output results/fft_trace.csv \
  --top 12
```

- Pass `--fy-freq` / `--fy-amp` to re-arm the FY source ahead of the grab (falls back to auto-detecting the FY port).
- Use `--smoothing none` or custom scripts on the CSV to cross-validate against the analyzer’s THD readings.
- The CLI prints the strongest bins in human-readable form while the CSV retains the full spectrum for post-processing.

## Continuous Integration

GitHub Actions run:
- `CI` workflow (matrix Python versions, coverage)
- `pre-commit` (lint/type checks)
- `docs` (MkDocs build, see workflow details)

Monitor failures with:

```bash
gh run list --status failure --branch main
```

Follow up on red runs before merging feature branches.

Commit message:

Add FFT vs THD sweep comparison script
Introduces scripts/fft_thd_compare.py for offline comparison of THD sweep CSVs and FFT spectrum captures. Updates documentation and usage examples in README.md and docs/testing.md to describe the new script and its options.

docs/testing.md, after:

# Testing Matrix

Use this checklist to ensure changes are validated across supported workflows.

## Unit & Integration Tests

- `python -m pytest -q` (with `AMPBENCHKIT_FAKE_HW=1` for simulator mode).
- Focus areas:
  - Signal generation helpers (`amp_benchkit.fy`, `signals.py`)
  - Scope capture and math subtraction (`amp_benchkit.tek`)
  - GUI builder smoke tests (`tests/test_gui_builders.py`)
  - Automation sweeps (`tests/test_automation.py`)

## GUI Smoke Tests

1. `python unified_gui_layout.py gui`
2. Verify generator, scope, and DAQ tabs load without hardware.
3. Run the “Run Test” or sweep actions using fake hardware.

## Hardware-in-the-Loop (HIL)

For release qualification (v0.3.6 baseline):

```bash
export AMP_HIL=1
pytest -q -rs
```

Exercise scope/generator fixtures individually for failures, e.g.:

```bash
pytest tests/test_gui_builders.py -k scope
```

### Tektronix auto-scaling checks

When validating sweeps at multiple amplitudes, prefer the new auto-scaling flags so the
Tek math trace does not clip between runs:

```bash
python unified_gui_layout.py thd-math-sweep \
  --math --math-order CH1-CH3 \
  --amp-vpp 0.3 \
  --scope-auto-scale CH1=13,CH3=1 \
  --scope-auto-scale-margin 0.8 \
  --apply-gold-calibration --cal-target-vpp 0.3 \
  --output results/thd_0p3_auto_gold.csv
```

- Tune the gain map (`CHn=value`) to match your probe ratios / stage gain.
- Keep results under `results/` (e.g. `results/kenwood/baseline_auto_gold/`) so future HIL runs can compare against the same artefacts.

Document anomalies in `CHANGELOG.md` or new issues.

### -3 dB knee sweep

Use the new headless bandwidth helper when validating amplifier bandwidth or matching against golden references:

```bash
python unified_gui_layout.py knee-sweep \
  --amp-vpp 1.0 \
  --output results/knee_sweep.csv \
  --apply-gold-calibration \
  --knee-drop-db 3.0 \
  --smoothing median --smooth-window 5
```

- Adjust `--knee-drop-db` for other thresholds (e.g. -1 dB noise floor checks).
- `--smoothing` / `--allow-non-monotonic` help tame non-linear response curves before interpolation.
- CLI output includes Vrms/PkPk columns plus the relative dB delta that should be cross-checked against published specs.

### FFT snapshot (Tek math trace)

When you need a quick look at harmonic distribution or the measurement noise floor, capture the on-scope FFT trace:

```bash
amp-benchkit fft-capture \
  --source CH1 \
  --window hanning \
  --scale db \
  --output results/fft_trace.csv \
  --top 12
```

- Pass `--fy-freq` / `--fy-amp` to re-arm the FY source ahead of the grab (falls back to auto-detecting the FY port).
- Use `--smoothing none` or custom scripts on the CSV to cross-validate against the analyzer’s THD readings.
- The CLI prints the strongest bins in human-readable form while the CSV retains the full spectrum for post-processing.

### Offline THD comparison

After capturing both a THD sweep and an FFT trace, reconcile them with the helper script:

```bash
python scripts/fft_thd_compare.py \
  --thd results/thd_sweep.csv \
  --fft results/fft_trace.csv \
  --auto-fundamental \
  --window 200 \
  --harmonics 8
```

- Swap `--auto-fundamental` for `--fundamental 1000` if the FFT is already zoomed to 1 kHz.
- Tighten `--window` when the FFT resolution is high to avoid picking up adjacent bins.
- The script surfaces the harmonic peaks and delta so scope FFT, THD sweep, and analyzer readings can be compared offline.

## Continuous Integration

GitHub Actions run:
- `CI` workflow (matrix Python versions, coverage)
- `pre-commit` (lint/type checks)
- `docs` (MkDocs build, see workflow details)

Monitor failures with:

```bash
gh run list --status failure --branch main
```

Follow up on red runs before merging feature branches.
